Guru Yoga of the Great Tertön Pema Lingpa
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Oṃ svasti!
Homage to Orgyen Pema Lingpa,Inseparably one with my own awareness.As a profound method of accomplishment,I
shall here set forth a brief guru yoga.
A devoted practitioner who maintains the samaya should settle on a comfortable seat, begin by
taking refuge and generating bodhicitta, then continue with:
a, döné kyemé chöying long
A! In the dharmadhātu expanse, forever unborn,
gakmé rangsal shyingkham cher
The vast pure realm of unceasing natural clarity,
nemé tukjé trulpé kur
As the unabiding nirmāṇakāya of compassion,
tsawé lama pema ling
My own root guru appears as Pema Lingpa
kar mar dangden ngakpé tsul
In the guise of a mantra adept with glowing pink complexion.
sang gö karpo dungma mar
He wears a white undergarment, red sleeves,
ku sham tsak kha zen muk dang
A reddish lower garment and maroon shawl.
u la pé shya kha bü sol
On his head is the blossoming lotus hat.
chak yé dorjé tukkar tö
His right hand holds a vajra at his heart,
yönpé nyamshyak töchang nam
And his left, in the gesture of equanimity, supports a skullcup of liquor.
shyab nyi dorjé kyiltrung shyuk
His two legs are crossed in vajra posture.
u tsuk guru dewa ché
At his crown is the Guru of Great Bliss
tuk ü chenrezik wang ni
And in the centre of his heart is Avalokiteśvara
semnyi ngalso shyukpar sal
In the form known as Finding Rest in the Nature of Mind.1
né sum dorjé dru sum lé
From the three vajra syllables at his three centres,
ö trö yeshe chendrang gyur
Light radiates out to invite the wisdom deities.

hung, womin khachö shyingkham dang
Hūṃ. From the pure celestial realm of Akaniṣṭha,
pema ö kyi podrang sok
As well as the Palace of Lotus Light,
ku sum shyingkham rabjam né
And all the infinite three-kāya pure realms,
rigdzin lama shek su sol
Come now, vidyādhara gurus!
pawo khandro khor dangché
Come, with your retinues of vīras and ḍākinīs!
duk dang gyaltsen tib sé tib
With throngs of parasols and banners of victory,
rolmo mangpo di riri
As many instruments play and their music resounds,
drishyim pö kyi dü trin tib
As clouds of fragrant incense billow and swirl,
hung dang pé dang pem gyi dré
And the sounds of ‘Hūṃ!’, ‘Phaṭ!’ and ‘Pheṃ!’ reverberate.
namsa gangwa tsam du ni
I invite you to fill the whole expanse of earth and sky.
chendrang damyé yermé shyuk
Wisdom deities, remain inseparable from samaya forms,
möden bu la jingyi lob
Inspire this devoted child with your blessings,
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
And grant me attainments, ordinary and supreme!
benza samaya dza
Vajra samaya jaḥ!
dza hung bam ho
Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ!
Gathering the Accumulations
hri, lü chok shying gi dul nyé trul
Hrīḥ! I emanate supreme forms as numerous as atoms in the world,
rab gü depé chaktsal lo
Who offer prostrations out of their sincere faith and devotion.
sishyi püntsok jinyepa
All that is excellent throughout the whole of existence and peace,
lo yi lang né chöpar bul
I hereby bring to mind and present to you as offerings.
tserab tokmé né sakpé
All my misdeeds and downfalls accumulated throughout
diktung tob shyi tsangwé shak
Beginningless lives I now confess with all four powers complete.
pak dang sokyé gé tsok la
I rejoice, without the slightest trace of envy,
trakdok mepar jé yi rang
In all the virtues of sublime and ordinary beings.
gyalwa nya ngen da shyé la
All you victorious ones intending to pass into nirvāṇa,
mi da shyukpar solwa deb
I implore you not to go beyond beyond but to remain.
duljé lo dang tsampa yi
Turn the wheel of Dharma, profound and vast, I urge you,
zabgyé chökhor korwar kul
In accordance with the temperaments of those to be trained.
dü sum sakpé lek jé kün
All the positivity accrued throughout the three times
dro nam changchub tob chir ngo
I hereby dedicate toward the great awakening of beings!
Offer the maṇḍala if you wish.
Prayer
kyilkhor gyatsö khyabdak pema jung
Padmasambhava, lord of oceanic maṇḍalas,
yeshe chik nyi dumar sharwé zuk
Your singular wisdom appears in many forms:
pema sal dang pema ledrel tsal
Princess Pema Sal, Pema Ledrel Tsal,
longchen rabjam tek chok tenpé dak
Longchen Rabjam, master of the teachings of the supreme vehicle,
pema lingpar tön la solwa deb
And Pema Lingpa. To you I pray:
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsal du sol
Grant me the attainments, ordinary and supreme!
Name Mantra
om ah benza guru pemadipa sarwa siddhi pala hung
oṃ āḥ vajra guru padmadvīpa sarva siddhi phala hūṃ
Recite the mantra.
chiwö lama dewa ché
A stream of nectar descends from
ku lé dütsi gyün babpa
The form of the Guru of Great Bliss at the crown.
lamé ku yi yib gyü né
It passes through the guru’s body
rang gi chiwo né babpé
And flows down into the crown of my head.
lü gang drib dak wang shyi tob
As it fills my body, it purifies obscurations and confers the four empowerments.
ku shyi ngön du gyurpa dang
And I actualize the four kāyas.
lama ö shyu rang la tim
The guru then melts into light and dissolves into me.
tuk yi sé la nyampar shyak
And in the fusion of mind and wisdom, I rest.
To practise the recitation of the yidam deity:
rangnyi lamar salwa dang
I appear clearly as the guru.
chiwor lama dewa ché
And at the heart centre of the Guru of Great Bliss at my crown
nyinggé tukjé chenpo yi
Is the Great Compassionate One,
tuk ü da teng hrih yi tsen
In the centre of whose heart is a Hrīḥ upon a moon disc,
ngak kyi kor lé özer trö
Surrounded by the mantra, from which rays of light emanate,
pak chö drib jang nang drak rik
Making offerings to the exalted ones and purifying obscurations, so that sights, sounds and
awareness
rigdzin lamé khorlor dzok
Are perfected as the maṇḍala of the vidyādhara guru.
Visualize the amṛta nectar flowing down from the guru at your crown and recite:
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Focusing on the yidam at the heart recite:
om mani padmé hung hrih
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ hrīḥ
Recite this as many times as possible. Then, at the end, practice the offering and praise with
the verses that mark a thousand recitations: “Yeshe lha tsok…etc.”

Tsok Offering
Should you wish to perform a feast offering, gather as many samaya substances as you can afford
and recite:
ah, zungwa namdak kapala
Āḥ. In the kapāla that is the purity of the perceived
dzinpa rangdrol damtsik dzé
The samaya substances of self-liberated perception
ram yam kham gyi jongwa dang
Are cleansed by means of raṃ, yaṃ and khaṃ
dru sum ö kyi dütsir gyur
And transformed into nectar through the light of the three seed-syllables.
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Repeat this three times.
hrih, ku sum shyingkham rabjam né
Hrīḥ! From infinite three-kāya realms,
lama yidam khandrö tsok
Come, gurus, yidam deities and ḍākinīs,
dir shek tsok kyi duwar shek
And join this feast gathering!
damtsik dzé la jin chen pob
Shower down great blessings upon the samaya substances,
nangsi chü dü ngödrub yik
And transform the essence of appearance and existence
dzepa mepé ter du gyur
Into an inexhaustible treasury of jewel-like attainments.
benza samaya dza
Vajra samaya jaḥ!
dza hung bam ho
Jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ!

ho, zacha tungwa chi yi tsok
Hoḥ! The outer feast of food and drink,
döyön ngaden nang gi tsok
The inner feast of sensory delights,
bar dzak nyom juk sangwé tsok
And the secret feast of union, blazing and dripping—
gyé nyam chenpö chöpar bul
These offerings that bring great delight, I offer.
damtsik nyamchak tol lo shak
I confess impairments and breakages of samaya.
chi nang sangwé trul tok drol
Free us from deluded concepts—outer, inner and secret.
yeshe long ngé ying su tob
Deliver them into the space of fivefold wisdom.
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Grant us the attainments, ordinary and supreme.

hung hrih, tukdam kangwé dzé chok ni
Hūṃ hrīḥ! Supreme substances for restoring commitments,
kunzang detong rolmo lé
These vast clouds of offerings which arise
jungwé chöpé trinpung ché
From Samantabhadra’s play of bliss and emptiness,
sishyi kham kyi dakpé dzé
These pure substances of the elements of existence and peace,
chiryang char shying chiryang trul
Magically transformed beyond any and all limits,
lama rigdzin kyilkhor ni
We offer to the maṇḍala of guru vidyādharas,
yul dang wangpo nyimé tob
Through the indivisibility of object and faculty.
dechen dütsi rab nyö té
Intoxicated through the nectar of great bliss,
jé chak yeshe gyumé trul
Illusory manifestations of passionate wisdom
namkha gangwar bar tro yi
Blaze forth and emanate to fill the whole of space.
nöchü yé dak kyilkhor du
In this maṇḍala of the original purity of world and inhabitants,
lhün dzok dechen chok ngödrub
May we attain the supreme accomplishment
tsé di nyi la drub gyur chik
Of spontaneously perfect great bliss within this very life.
Then enjoy the tsok feast. For the remainder torma, recite the following:
hrih pem, ngöntsé drubpé heruké
Hrīḥ! Pheṃ! May those who were empowered in former times
pal gyi pampab la wang tsok
To receive the the accomplished heruka’s leftovers
lhaktor shyé la lungsem kyi
Accept this remainder torma and liberate the appearance
nangcha rik ying drolwar dzö
Of wind-energy and mind into the space of awareness!
utsita balingta khahi
Ucchiṣṭa baliṅta khāhi!
Make the offering.
Aspiration
rigdzin lamé kyilkhor du
By making this tsok offering
tsok kyi chöpa pulwa yi
To the maṇḍala of the vidyādhara guru,
dakshyen drowa malüpa
May I and others, every single sentient being,
kyilkhor chik tu drubpar shok
Attain realization within the same maṇḍala!
For the offering and praise born of gratitude and the confession of errors, recite:
hung hrih, rigdzin lamé lhatsok chö
Hūṃ hrīḥ! I offer to you, the hosts of deities of the vidyādhara guru.
yönten jedren lu yi tö
With songs that recall your virtuous qualities, I praise you.
ku sung tuk kyi ngödrub tsol
Grant me the attainments of enlightened body, speech and mind.
galtrul nyamchak tol lo shak
I confess all my errors, confusions, impairments and breakages!
Recite the hundred-syllable mantra. If you have an image, perform the request to remain. Finally,
recite:
nöchü ö shyu rang la tim
Environment and inhabitants melt into light and dissolve into me.
rang yang mimik ying su tim
I too dissolve into basic space beyond reference.
lar yang lamé kur salwé
Then, once again, I appear in the form of the guru,
né sum yigé sungwar gyur
My three centres protected by the three syllables.
om benza ka wa tsi raksha hang
oṃ vajra kāvāci rakṣa haṃ
Dedicate the virtue by reciting “Through the positivity and merit of this…etc.”, make aspirations,
and then set about your post-meditation activities.

In response to a request, accompanied by a supporting gift, from Yakze Lama Gyurdrak, Chökyi
Lodrö began this at Druptso Pema Ling during the monkey month of the monkey year and completed
it at the great dharma centre of Lhalung.

Through the virtue of this may all sentient beingsPurify all their negative karma and obscurations,And
be brought before the Guru and his heirsIn the citadel of Lotus Light,To be sustained
by the nectar of his speech,Traverse the path of the four vidyādhara levelsAnd gain
the capacity to empty saṃsāra’s depths!
Sarva maṅgalam!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2021.

Source:  ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gter chen pad+ma gling pa'i bla ma'i rnal 'byor/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986.
Vol. 4: 93–99
↑ Semnyi Ngalso (sems nyid ngal gso). A note here says: With one face and two hands, the right
hand in the gesture of supreme generosity and the left hand resting on his hip, with legs
half-crossed.