The Mahāguru Prayer
revealed by Pema Lingpa

namo guru
Namo Guru: homage to the Guru!
The great master Padmasambhava was on the verge of leaving Tibet for the south-west and the
land of the rākṣasas, when, high up upon the Gungthang Pass in Mangyul, Yeshé Tsogyal prostrated
before him and circumambulated him. Then she placed his feet upon the crown of her
head, and made this prayer of aspiration:
maha gurü jinlab kyi
Mahā Guru, bless me
dak kyang tserab tamché du
That in all my lives to come,
shyingkham dakpé podrang du
In the palace in your pure land,
lama dralmé tenpar shok
Inseparable from you, master, I will always be.

mögü tem kyang mepa yi
And with zeal and devotion,
nyepé shyabtok drubpa dang
I will serve you and please you,
gongpa zabmo tuk kyi chü
And receive the transmission of your nectar-like blessing:
jinlab dütsi lung tob shok
Your profound realization, the very essence of your wisdom mind.

ku sung tuk kyi jinlab kyi
Let the blessing of your enlightened body, speech and mind,
lü ngak yi sum minpa dang
Ripen my own body, speech and mind,
zabmö kyedzok nam nyi la
So that I gain mastery over the profound
wang tob drubpa jepar shok
Generation and completion stages.

loktok dü kyi tsok nam dang
May I eliminate completely the demons of wrong views,
nedön barché shyiwa dang
Along with illness, harmful influence and obstacles,
khor dang longchö gyepa yi
And may good companions and resources multiply,
sampa yishyin drubpar shok
So that my wishes are all fulfilled, just as I desire.

durtrö ritrö gang trö sok
In charnel grounds, hermitages, retreats amid the snows,
pünsum tsokpé né nyi du
And other secluded places with all perfect qualities,
tingdzin zabmö gong chü la
Let the quintessence of deep samādhi meditation
taktu drubpa jepar shok
Be my constant practice.

drubpa jepé drebu yi
And as the result of this practice,
trinlé nam shyi drubpa dang
May I accomplish the four activities,
lhasin dren du khol né kyang
Turn even gods and rākṣasas into my servants,
sangyé tenpa sungwar shok
And so be able to protect the teachings of Buddha.

tönpé sungpé damchö nam
May all the sublime teachings taught by Buddha
tsolmé gyü la charwar shok
Appear, with no effort, within my mind;
khyenpa chok la nga nyé né
And, through mastering supreme knowledge such as this,
tokpa chok dang denpar shok
May I attain supreme realization.

changchub sem kyi tendrel gyi
Through bodhicitta’s causes and conditions,
kyendro malü wang dü né
May I reach and magnetize every single living being,
tokmé yishyin norbü tü
And through the power of my actions, unbounded like a wish-granting gem,
dreltsé dön dang denpar shok
May any connection we have be of deepest benefit and meaning.

sangyé tenpa darwé tü
May I cause the teachings of Buddha to spread,
gyü dzin chö tön gyepa dang
So that lineage holders and teachers of Dharma increase,
dro kün dé la khö né kyang
All beings are brought to bliss,
shyingkham tamché dakpar shok
And all realms are purified into buddha fields.

dak gi lü ngak yi sum gyi
From my body, speech and mind,
dulja sosö lo yul du
Let infinite emanations appear,
gang la gang dul trulpé ku
To benefit each of those to be trained,
pak tu mepar jungwar shok
Every one according to their needs.

dorna khordé malü kün
May I realize the entirety of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa
guru nyi dang yermé ching
Is your manifestation, Guru, inseparable from you,
ku sum dudral mepa yi
And by understanding the three kāyas to be forever indivisible,
namkhyen sangyé nyur tob shok
May I swiftly attain the omniscience of buddhahood.

semchen solwa debpar shok
May sentient beings offer their prayers,
lamé jingyi lob par shok
May the masters grant their blessings,
yidam ngödrub terwar shok
May yidam deities grant attainments,
khandrö lungten jepar shok
May ḍākinīs grant predictions,
chökyong barché salwar shok
May Dharma protectors dispel obstacles,
sangyé tenpa dar shying gyepar shok
May the Buddha’s teaching spread and grow,
semchen tamché dé shying kyipar shok
May all beings enjoy happiness and well-being,
nyin dang tsen du chö la chöpar shok
May they live out the Dharma day and night,
rangshyen dön nyi lhün gyi drubpar shok
May our own and others’ aims be spontaneously accomplished.

rangshyin dakpé gewa di
Through this merit, pure by its very nature,
khorwa ngensong dong truk né
Let saṃsāra’s depths, the lower realms, be emptied,
si tsor lar yang mi né shing
So no longer we remain in this ocean of existence,
chamchik ku sum ngön gyur shok
But actualize the three kāyas, together—all as one.

gyalwa kün gyi sang chen dzö
Great secret treasure of all the buddhas,
lamé chok gi tenpa di
Supreme, unsurpassed teaching of Dzogpachenpo,
jitar kha la nyishar shyin
Like a sun rising in the sky,
gyalkham yong la dargyé shok
Shine and spread through the entire world!

dak gi gewé tsawa di dang gewé tsawa shyendak kyang kyé né
May this merit and my other roots of virtue grow,
palden lamé tukgong yongsu dzokpé yönten dang denpar gyur chik
So that I embody all the precious qualities that fulfil the wishes of the perfect master,
sangyé kyi tenpa rinpoché dar shying gyepar jepé kyebu tobden du gyur chik
I possess the power to spread and expand the Buddha’s precious teachings,
khyenpa dang tsewa nüpa sum tarchin né dzokpé sangyé su gyur chik
I realize ultimate wisdom, love and capacity, and so become perfectly enlightened,
drowa rik druk na nepé semchen tamché khorwa dukngal gyi gyatso lé dral té nyurdu ngönpar dzokpar
sangyé par gyur chik
And all sentient beings in the six realms are freed from saṃsāra’s great ocean of suffering,
and quickly attain complete and perfect buddhahood.

This was revealed by Pema Lingpa from the rock shaped like a lion’s head in the medicinal valley
of Lhodrak.

| Rigpa Translations, 2014. Translated with reference to a teaching by Dzongsar Jamyang Khyentsé
Rinpoche at Lerab Ling on the occasion of the dungchö of Khandro Tsering Chödrön, September
2nd 2011.

Version: 1.2-20210916